README.md, before:

# Meproc



Meproc is a process management service that can start, stop, and restart specified programs in a specified manner through an HTTP API.



## Installation

Meproc is written in [Melang](https://github.com/Water-Melon/Melang) language, which means that you need to install and only install Melang, then Meproc can be started up.

You can pull the built docker image.

```
docker pull melonc/meproc
```



## Quick Start



### Start Meproc

```bash
melang meproc.m
```

Then you can see the output that Meproc service listening address.

The default IP is `127.0.0.1` and port is `8606`.



### Start process

Here is a simple example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2}'
```

Using a PUT HTTP request to start up a new process.

`name` is the task name. One task is a group of same processes. In this example, we will start up two process to run `sleep 5`.

`once` means that the processes in this task will only be executed once. And there are three values of `type` field:

- `once` means this task will only be executed once even if it exits unexpectedly.
- `daemon` means this task is a daemon, so if this process exits in any reason, it will be restarted.
- `cron` means this task is a cron job, it will contain a field named `cron` in task JSON.



Let's take a look at another example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1"]}'
```

`deps` indicates the list of task names that this task depends on.

The meaning of "dependency" is that when a task is going to be executed, if it finds that the tasks in the `deps` field are already running, it will wait for those tasks to finish before being executed. If the task in the `deps` field of this task has never been executed, it will not prevent this task from being executed.



A cron job example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "cron", "cron": "* * * * *", "replica": 2}'
```

This task will be executed every minute.



### Stop process

Let's stop out `sleep1` task.

```bash
curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1
```



### Restart process

Let's restart task `sleep2`.

```bash
curl -v -XPOST http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep2
```

 Restart will stop this task and start it again. And restart is only working on the tasks those are not stopped by `curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=<proc_name>`.



### List all tasks and processes

```bash
curl -v -XGET http://127.1:8606/proc
```

An HTTP response with a JSON body will be returned.



### Change configuration

Configuration file is `conf.m`.

```
Conf = [
    'ip': '127.0.0.1',
    'port': '8606',
    'log_level': 'debug',
    'log_path': '/tmp/Meproc.log',
];
```

`Conf` is a variable that contains all configurations that Meproc needs. And the name `Conf` can not be changed and it is also case-sensitive.



## Example

We start up Meproc, and run the commands that given below:

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2}'

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1"]}'

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep3", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1", "sleep2"]}'

curl -v http://127.1:8606/proc

curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2}'

curl -v -XPOST http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep4", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "cron", "cron": "* * * * *", "replica": 2}'
```

We will see the output of Meproc like:

```
11/01/2023 10:28:28 UTC [INFO]: Listen: 127.0.0.1:8606
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 stopped
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep2 started
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 stopped
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533616 (sleep2:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533615 (sleep2:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533626 (sleep1:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533624 (sleep1:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep3 started
11/01/2023 10:28:42 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533685 (sleep3:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:42 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533686 (sleep3:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:45 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:28:50 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533747 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:50 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533748 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:00 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:05 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534633 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:05 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534634 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:20 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 stopped
11/01/2023 10:30:20 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:25 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534878 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:25 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534879 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 stopped
11/01/2023 10:30:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534999 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1535000 (sleep4:1) exit
...
```



## License

[BSD-3-Clause License](https://github.com/Water-Melon/Melang/blob/master/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2023-present, [MelonCTech](https://github.com/MelonCTech)

Commit message:

feat(task): support setting user and group for new processes

README.md, after:

# Meproc



Meproc is a process management service that can start, stop, and restart specified programs in a specified manner through an HTTP API.



## Installation

Meproc is written in [Melang](https://github.com/Water-Melon/Melang) language, which means that you need to install and only install Melang, then Meproc can be started up.

You can pull the built docker image.

```
docker pull melonc/meproc
```



## Quick Start



### Start Meproc

```bash
melang meproc.m
```

Then you can see the output that Meproc service listening address.

The default IP is `127.0.0.1` and port is `8606`.



### Start process

Here is a simple example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "user": "guest"}'
```

Using a PUT HTTP request to start up a new process.

`name` is the task name. One task is a group of same processes. In this example, we will start up two process to run `sleep 5`.

`once` means that the processes in this task will only be executed once. And there are three values of `type` field:

- `once` means this task will only be executed once even if it exits unexpectedly.
- `daemon` means this task is a daemon, so if this process exits in any reason, it will be restarted.
- `cron` means this task is a cron job, it will contain a field named `cron` in task JSON.
- `user` indicates the user of the new process. Please make sure that Meproc has the permission to do this. `user` and `group` are NOT working on Windows.



Let's take a look at another example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1"]}'
```

`deps` indicates the list of task names that this task depends on.

The meaning of "dependency" is that when a task is going to be executed, if it finds that the tasks in the `deps` field are already running, it will wait for those tasks to finish before being executed. If the task in the `deps` field of this task has never been executed, it will not prevent this task from being executed.



A cron job example.

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "cron", "cron": "* * * * *", "replica": 2}'
```

This task will be executed every minute.



### Stop process

Let's stop out `sleep1` task.

```bash
curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1
```



### Restart process

Let's restart task `sleep2`.

```bash
curl -v -XPOST http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep2
```

 Restart will stop this task and start it again. And restart is only working on the tasks those are not stopped by `curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=<proc_name>`.



### List all tasks and processes

```bash
curl -v -XGET http://127.1:8606/proc
```

An HTTP response with a JSON body will be returned.



### Change configuration

Configuration file is `conf/conf.m`.

```
Conf = [
    'ip': '127.0.0.1',
    'port': '8606',
    'log_level': 'debug',
    'log_path': '/tmp/Meproc.log',
];
```

`Conf` is a variable that contains all configurations that Meproc needs. And the name `Conf` can not be changed and it is also case-sensitive.



## Example

We start up Meproc, and run the commands that given below:

```bash
curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2}'

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep2", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1"]}'

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep3", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2, "deps": ["sleep1", "sleep2"]}'

curl -v http://127.1:8606/proc

curl -v -XDELETE http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep1", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "once", "replica": 2}'

curl -v -XPOST http://127.1:8606/proc?name=sleep1

curl -v -XPUT http://127.1:8606/proc -d '{"name": "sleep4", "cmd": "sleep 5", "type": "cron", "cron": "* * * * *", "replica": 2}'
```

We will see the output of Meproc like:

```
11/01/2023 10:28:28 UTC [INFO]: Listen: 127.0.0.1:8606
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 stopped
11/01/2023 10:28:31 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep2 started
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 stopped
11/01/2023 10:28:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep1 started
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533616 (sleep2:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533615 (sleep2:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533626 (sleep1:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533624 (sleep1:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:37 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep3 started
11/01/2023 10:28:42 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533685 (sleep3:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:42 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533686 (sleep3:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:45 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:28:50 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533747 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:28:50 UTC [INFO]: Process 1533748 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:00 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:05 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534633 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:05 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534634 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:20 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 stopped
11/01/2023 10:30:20 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:25 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534878 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:25 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534879 (sleep4:1) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 stopped
11/01/2023 10:30:32 UTC [INFO]: Task sleep4 started
11/01/2023 10:30:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1534999 (sleep4:0) exit
11/01/2023 10:30:37 UTC [INFO]: Process 1535000 (sleep4:1) exit
...
```



## License

[BSD-3-Clause License](https://github.com/Water-Melon/Melang/blob/master/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2023-present, [MelonCTech](https://github.com/MelonCTech)
